G Suite account policy draft (#69)
helpfulengineering/devops: documentation/architecture/cloud/gsuite/accounts.md

# Helpful Engineering G Suite - Account Policy

## Types

> Accounts can be divided in two major categories: personal accounts, external accounts and purpose-specific accounts. The latter should be avoided whenever possible lest losing fine-grained control over individual permissions, but they're required for some specific use cases like Google Analytics and common file storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accounts can be divided in three major categories: personal accounts, external accounts and shared (purpose-specific) accounts. Shared accounts will be created only in very specific cases where several individuals need access to a single account for access to G Suite managed resources such as Google Analytics and common file storage.
```

Author: Nobody expects the Spanish inquisition. :smile: Thanks!

### Purpose-specific account
This kind of account, managed by one or many users through a [securely shared password](/documentation/guidance/credential-sharing.md), is not tied to any specific natural person and can be used by up to 4 concurrent users <!-- just in case, to avoid tripping bot protection -->. Its main purpose is enabling multiple or variable users to access Google-specific services like Analytics or Drive, and should not be requested only for mail exchange (see below).

#### Group mail
In those cases where mailing is the only need for an «account», there is a much better alternative known as _shared inbox_, that allows multiple users to send and receive mail from their individual accounts without additional overhead. These shared inboxes can be managed through [Google Groups](https://groups.google.com/a/helpfulengineering.org/forum/#!myforums), nearly like normal account inboxes. 

## Naming

> Though there were some exceptions in the early stages of the provisioning process, all the newly created personal accounts should be named following the well-known convention of concatenating the initial of the first name and the complete last name (*exempli gratia:* John Doe => `jdoe@helpfulengineering.org`). <!-- let's hope we don't have any user called Ajani Erkson -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though there were some exceptions in the early stages of the provisioning process, all the newly created personal accounts should be named following the well-known convention of concatenating the initial of the first name and the complete last name (*exempli gratia:* John Doe => `jdoe@helpfulengineering.org`). <!-- let's hope we don't have any user called Ajani Erkson -->  In the case where this convention produces duplication, additional letters from the first name should be used to generate a unique username: a second user with the name John Doe would result in an address of j**o**doe@helpfulengineering.org.
```

In those cases where mailing is the only need for an «account», there is a much better alternative known as _shared inbox_, that allows multiple users to send and receive mail from their individual accounts without additional overhead. These shared inboxes can be managed through [Google Groups](https://groups.google.com/a/helpfulengineering.org/forum/#!myforums), nearly like normal account inboxes. 

## Naming

> Though there were some exceptions in the early stages of the provisioning process, all the newly created personal accounts should be named following the well-known convention of concatenating the initial of the first name and the complete last name (*exempli gratia:* John Doe => `jdoe@helpfulengineering.org`). In the case where this convention produces duplication, additional letters from the first name should be used to generate a unique username: a second user with the name John Doe would result in an address of `j**o**doe@helpfulengineering.org.

Author: ```suggestion
Though there were some exceptions in the early stages of the provisioning process, all the newly created personal accounts should be named following the well-known convention of concatenating the initial of the first name and the complete last name (*exempli gratia:* John Doe => `jdoe@helpfulengineering.org`). In the case where this convention produces duplication, additional letters from the first name should be used to generate a unique username: a second user with the name John Doe would result in an address of `jodoe@helpfulengineering.org`.
```

Those Spanish ISO dead keys...
